# Machine Learning - Advanced Regression
## Regression_Sprint_2307ACDS_Team _EG1
### Spain Demand Shortfall Regression Challenge
This project is about modelling the shortfall between the energy generated by means of fossil fuels and various renewable sources - for the country of Spain.
## Team Members
- Lesego Maponyane: Team Lead
- Jonathan Thomson: Project Manager
- Bonani Mkhari
- Winnie Mmari
- Fransisca Iloh
- Janet Adeoye
## Overview 
The supply of electricity plays a large role in the livelihood of citizens in a country. Electricity, amongst other things, helps us stay connected, keep warm, and feed our families. Therefore there's a need to keep the lights on in order to maintain and improve the standard of living by investing in electricity infrastructure. However, in recent years, there has been evidence that the use of purely non-renewable sources is not sustainable.

The government of Spain is considering an expansion of its renewable energy resource infrastructure investments. As such, they require information on the trends and patterns of the country's renewable sources and fossil fuel energy generation. For this very reason, the government of Spain has been tracking the different energy sources available within the country.
## Project Summary 
  * Investigated the Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) to get more insight from the dataset
  * Cleaned the dataset accordingly and performed feature engineering on it to determine the best features to use
  * Split the dataset in to 80% training set and 20% testing set
  * Trained 6 models (Linear, Decision Trees, Ridge, Random Forest, Multiple Linear, LASSO) and tested how they performed
  * Did a model optimization
  * Deployed using API
## DataSet 
The dataset provided contains the weather conditions in various cities in Spain from the year 2015-2017
The weather categories are as follows:
  * Temperature
  * Temp_mx
  * Temp_min
  * Weather_id
  * Snow
  * Rain_1h
  * Rain_3h
  * Pressure
  * Clouds
  * Humidity
  * Wind_deg
  * Wind_speed
The cities of Spain:
  * Barcelona
  * Valencia
  * Seville
  * Bilbao
  * Madrid
## Data Cleaning
We saw that: 
- Placing all values that were objects into the appropriate "readable" value, ie: float/int
- Replacing null values with mode value
- Extracting valuable information from the time column
- dropping the time column unknown columns
## Model Conclusion 
Random Forest has a higher R2 for Test data as compared to the other models.
Random Forest again has a lower RMSE for both the Training and Test data as compared to the other models.
We can therefore conclude that Random Forest is the best model to use for prediction of 3 hourly load shortfall in Spain

